Updates quickstart (#1234)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/quickstart.mdx

---
# cSpell:ignore thisisunsafe, genkey, noout

title: Secure a Web App With Pomerium Core
lang: en-US
sidebar_label: Quickstart
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
description: In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to run Pomerium Core in a Docker container and secure access to a web application.
keywords:
  [
    pomerium,
    identity access proxy,
    reverse proxy,
    containers,
    identity aware proxy,
    quickstart,
    docker,
    docker compose,
    core,
    pomerium core,
  ]
---

import ConfigDocker from '@site/content/examples/config/config.docker.yaml.md';
import DockerCompose from '@site/content/examples/docker/basic.docker-compose.yml.md';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Secure a Web Application With Pomerium

Welcome to Pomerium! This quickstart shows you how to set up Pomerium Core to proxy requests to an internal web application in a containerized Docker environment.

**Steps to complete**:

> 1. Configure Pomerium Core and the Verify web app to run in Docker containers

Reviewer: Links to pomerium core and verify would be nice.

2. Access the Verify web app behind Pomerium

**Time to complete:** 5 minutes

:::note

Check out [**Pomerium Fundamentals**](/docs/courses/fundamentals/get-started) for step-by-step instructions on how to configure and run Pomerium Core to protect your apps and services.

:::

## Before you start

> Install [Docker] and [Docker Compose].

Reviewer: Maybe mention we of course support many other architectures and deployment styles (with a link) but for the quickstart we are going to bootstrap with docker.

    quickstart pomerium,
    quickstart,
    docker,
    docker-compose,
    docker compose,
    core,
    pomerium core,
  ]
---

import ConfigDocker from '@site/content/examples/config/config.docker.yaml.md';
import DockerCompose from '@site/content/examples/docker/basic.docker-compose.yml.md';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Secure a Web Application With Pomerium

Welcome to Pomerium! This quickstart shows you how to set up Pomerium Core to proxy requests to an internal web application in a containerized Docker environment.

**Steps to complete**:

1. Configure [Pomerium Core](/docs/deploy/core) and the [Verify](https://verify.pomerium.com/) web app to run in Docker containers
2. Access the Verify web app behind Pomerium

**Time to complete:** 5 minutes

:::note

Check out [**Pomerium Fundamentals**](/docs/courses/fundamentals/get-started) for step-by-step instructions on how to configure and run Pomerium Core to protect your apps and services.

# Run Pomerium Core With Docker
:::

## Before you start

Run Pomerium Core with Docker containers in **under 5 minutes**.
This quickstart requires [Docker] and [Docker Compose].

> The Core quickstart uses Pomerium's [**Hosted Authenticate Service**](/docs/capabilities/hosted-authenticate-service), but you can also configure a [**self-hosted authenticate service**](/docs/capabilities/self-hosted-authenticate-service) to integrate with Pomerium.

Reviewer 2: removing the self hosted callout was going to be my PR, but then I saw this. Excellent

> This guide uses Docker to bootstrap Pomerium. However, we support other [**architectures and deployment styles**](/docs/deploy), too.

Reviewer 3: We already use the term "bootstrap" elsewhere in the docs, where it means something different (particular settings that you need to configure in Core before setting up Enterprise). I'd recommend we avoid using it here.

suggestion:
```suggestion
While this guide uses Docker, Pomerium supports other [**architectures and deployment styles**](/docs/deploy), too.
```

Add the configuration below to `config.yaml`:

<ConfigDocker />

:::caution

The `signing_key` above is intended to be used for testing purposes. Do not use this signing key in a production environment.

See the [**Signing Key**](/docs/reference/signing-key) reference page for instructions on how to generate your own secure signing key.

:::

> ## Set up Docker Compose

Reviewer 3: nit: "Set up Docker Compose" gives me the impression that this is about installing Docker Compose; what about this instead?

```suggestion
## Run Pomerium and the Verify application
```

docker compose up
```

## Access the protected web app

Go to the [Verify URL](https://verify.localhost.pomerium.io) you defined in `config.yaml`.

### Self-signed certificate warning

Because you don't have a valid certificate, Pomerium generates a self-signed one for you. This will prompt your browser to throw a self-signed certificate warning.

To bypass the warning:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Chrome" label="Chrome">

1. Select **Advanced**
1. Select **Proceed to verify.localhost.pomerium.io (unsafe)**

If you don't see an **Advanced** option:

1. Click anywhere in the window
1. Type "thisisunsafe" (no spaces)
1. Make sure **Reload** is selected
1. Select **Enter**

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Safari" label="Safari">

1. Select **Show Details**
1. Select **visit this website**
1. In the confirmation popup, select **Visit Website**

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="FireFox" label="FireFox">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="Firefox" label="Firefox">
```

1. Select **Advanced**
1. Select **Accept the Risk and Continue**

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Pomerium will redirect you to our hosted identity provider to authenticate.

Then, it will redirect you to the **Verify** service. You'll see a page like this:

> ![Accessing the Verify web app behind Pomerium](./img/quickstart/identity-verified.png)

Reviewer 3: Unfortunately this won't work with the latest version of the Verify app (since https://github.com/pomerium/verify/commit/b8ce8e42f5131d523270e3efbfa1ef7ec5ef3a1c). The Verify app will now correctly show a TLS error because Pomerium does not have a trusted certificate.
